Feat/improve os setup (#57)
tauri-apps/tauri-docs: docs/getting-started/setup-linux.md

title: Setup for Linux
---

import Alert from '@theme/Alert'
import Icon from '@theme/Icon'

This setup is only needed for development. Consumers of Tauri apps will not have to do any of this.

This page provides a **complete guide** to install Tauri along with its dependencies. Because Tauri is a polyglot toolchain and involves complex installation instructions, we want to make sure _anybody_ will manage to set it up by reading this guide without having to open another documentation.

<Icon title="alert" color="danger" />: This step is required
<br/>

> <Icon title="control-skip-forward" color="warning" /> : This step is skippable if already satisfied (e.g. you already have NodeJS/Rust installed)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Icon title="control-skip-forward" color="warning" /> : This step is skippable if already satisfied (e.g. you already have Node.js/Rust installed)
```

<br/>

<Icon title="info-alt" color="info" />: This step is purely informational
<br/>

## <Icon title="alert" color="danger" /> System Dependencies

```sh
$ sudo apt update && sudo apt install libwebkit2gtk-4.0-dev \
    build-essential \
    curl \
    libssl-dev \
    appmenu-gtk3-module
```

> ## <Icon title="control-skip-forward" color="warning" /> NodeJS Runtime and Package Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## <Icon title="control-skip-forward" color="warning" /> Node.js Runtime and Package Manager
```

> ### NodeJS (npm included)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Node.js (npm included)
```

> We recommend using nvm to manage your NodeJS runtime. It allows you to easily switch versions and update NodeJS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using nvm to manage your Node.js runtime. It allows you to easily switch versions and update Node.js.
```

```sh
$ curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.2/install.sh | bash
```

<Alert title="Note">
We have audited this bash script, and it does what it says it is supposed to do. Nevertheless, before blindly curl-bashing a script, it is always wise to look at it first. Here is the file as a mere <a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.35.2/install.sh" target="_blank">download link</a>.
</Alert>

> Once nvm is installed, close and reopen your terminal, then install lastest NodeJS and npm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once nvm is installed, close and reopen your terminal, then install the lastest version of Node.js and npm:
```

```sh
$ nvm install node --latest-npm
$ nvm use node
```

If you have any problems with nvm, please consult their <a href="https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm">project readme</a>.

> ### Optional NodeJS package manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Optional Node.js package manager
```
